{\rtf1\mac\ansicpg10000\cocoartf824\cocoasubrtf470
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset77 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww13180\viewh8280\viewkind0
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\f0\fs24 \cf0 > What is the difference\
> between the rows and the columns? How were the x's derived?\
\
First reviewer asked about the differences between rows and columns in Design Structure Matrices (DSMs) \
Actually, design decisions are disposed both in rows and columns. A 'x' mark in use case model row / feature model column means that decisions related to the use case model depend on decisions about\
 the variability space (feature models). Therefore, each 'x' mark is derived from the need of communication between these design decisions (which may also be reflected in SPL artifacts).\
\
> Is it possible that this is a comparison between the\
> authors' perfect offering of a design, versus someone else's\
> imperfect offering?\
\
The proposed approach was compared against PLUC and PLUSS techniques.They present important contributions \
for representing variability in use case models. However, both PLUC and PLUSS are not concerned with a modular design (a clear separation between variability artifacts and traditional software artifacts). In this way, the SPL evolvability is compromised. One of the contributions of this paper is to reveal this problem in the context of use case scenarios. However, the same problem occurs in other SPL models. \
\
> How important is to solve this problem (I believe it\
> is very important, but the paper is not as strong in making the case as could\
> be)?\
\
\
\
> How significant are these results on these examples?\
\
The second reviewer asked about the significance of quantitative analysis. In the first case study, Multimedia Message Product Line, we can realize a significant improvement in several metrics. For instance, the mean value of feature diffusion over use cases in PLUC and PLUSS was equal to 3.5. In our approach, this value was dropped to 2.  This means that, if the behavior related to one feature change,it might be required to review 3.5 use cases (in avarage). On the other hand, by applying our approach in this product line, it will be expected to review 2 use cases. The differences was not so significant in the Pedagogical Product Line (PPL), since its features are not spread in several use cases (as explained in Section 4.2.2). So, the main benefits in PPL were related to reduction in the specification size.\
\
> Are there some other difficulties using the proposed approach?\
\
\
> Claiming that you are formally describing a modeling framework in section 3.2\
> may be a bit questionable\
\
The second reviewer made a question about our claiming that we have formally described the modeling framework, instead of just providing the implementation of several weavers. Actually, the formal model corresponds to the instances of the tuple elements defined at the beginning  of Section 3.2. Each instance clearly provides the contribution of  each input language for dealing with a specific variability mechanism. Additionally, one implementation of these mechanisms is provided, and the corresponding elements of the tuple are matched with specific functions or parameters of the weaver implementation.\
\
\
\
 \
\
\
}