{\rtf1\mac\ansicpg10000\cocoartf824\cocoasubrtf480
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset77 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww13180\viewh8560\viewkind0
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\f0\fs24 \cf0 Hi Mehmet,\
\
This is Rodrigo Bonif\'87cio from Federal University of\
Pernambuco/Brazil. I just want to check-in with you regarding our\
conditionally accepted paper at AOSD.\
\
Ana's e-mail said you would be our shepherd to address the reviewers\
concerns regarding our paper.  First, I would like to thank you for\
taking on that responsibility. We are committed to making the\
clarifications necessary to improve the paper. Also, I am wondering if\
you had any additional details of what points we need to address.\
\
Based on the reviews, I guess that the main point we should address are: \
\
a) The first review said "My sense is of solid research but ultimately ungrounded - essentially an\
intellectual exercise." \
\
We are going to better clarify the context of our work. Actually, this research is being conducted with the Motorola Brazil Test Center, which have developed a tool that translates textual requirements into use case scenarios. The current version of this tool does not have any support for variability management. Therefore, address such a limitation is one of the reasons for this work. \
\
b) The second review stated that "the paper does not provide convincing enough arguments for the need of a\
modeling framework as described in section 4...." , followed by "....but does not evaluate the modeling framework at all"\
\
We agree that we should explain better the first point. The proposed modeling framework is the basis for expressing the semantics of variability management as crosscutting mechanisms and for implementing the essence of the composition processes. Regard to the second consideration, we do evaluate the modeling framework by means of its different instances (one for each source of variability)) that we have described in the paper. Also related to this topic, the modeling framework can be used to describe new kinds of composition (like the interesting ones suggested by some of the reviewers).  We should clarify this point either. \
\
c) The third review asked us to explain better our approach in Section 3. \
\
We are going to provide more details about some decisions that were not described in the paper, such as how we check if a product configuration belongs to the feature model. I guess that it would also be interesting to describe which tools are used for specifying the input models and *how* instances of these models are imported to our environment. What do you think about this point? Some of the reviewers asked us about tool support. I think that this question can be addressed by such a kind of discussion.  Besides that, details about the implementation of the composition processes were presented in Section 4. \
\
d) Evaluation Section\
\
We are going to better explain several questions related to the evaluation section. First of all, we need to make clear that PLUC offers the lowest degree of modularity, when compared to PLUSS and SVCM. For this reason we didn't spend much time (and space) in its evaluation. Additionally, we are going to explain *why* we have found variations in the results of the different evaluations. This occurs mainly due to the different crosscutting nature (Homogeneous x Heterogeneous) of certain features in the case studies. As asked by some of the reviewers, we also need to clarify the notion of "homogeneous x heterogeneous crosscutting" to our context. \
\
The third reviewer also asked us to extend some tables with aspectual use cases. I agree that presenting some aspectual use cases might be useful for clarifying the point of heterogeneous crosscutting. However, I'm afraid that we do not have enough space in the paper to do that. Is it possible to send a final version with 13 pages? If it is not possible, can we make available some details in our site? \
\
\
\
\
\
 \
\
\
\
\
 \
\
\
\
\
\
Reviewer xyz asked us for compare our approach to other annotated\
ones. However, I'm not sure what other approaches we can compare in\
our field.\
\
}