{\rtf1\mac\ansicpg10000\cocoartf824\cocoasubrtf470
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset77 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww14500\viewh9520\viewkind0
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\f0\fs24 \cf0 SUMMARY:\
\
The paper presents how requirement variabilities can be expressed as aspects in ADORA, a language for modeling requirements specifications and software architecture. First, the authors describe the context and state the main contributions of the work. Then, a running example, for the domain of home automation, is presented. In this running example, several variants and constraints are described. In Section 3 of the paper, the authors briefly introduce how to model SPL variabilities as aspects in ADORA; further information about the semantics of this approach is provided in a previous work. After that, is described a technique for handling variability by means of decision/constraint tables, which gives the impression of being the major contribution of the paper. Two tables are used in the approach: the first one is used both for describing product line scope (features), constraints, and decision support; and the second is used for representing variation points. There is some overlapping in those tables. Then, the authors present how ADORA models and the table information can be visualized; moreover, Section 4.2 also describes how requirement models for specific products can be derived. Finally, the authors relate their proposed approach with existing ones and conclude the paper.\
\
EVALUATION:\
\
The paper is well written (just a few typos) and the context  is relevant for the software product line community: how to manage variabilities at requirements artifacts. However, the authors do not present what is the problem tried to be solved by their proposed approach. They cited existing works, but do not clarify which are their limitations. Therefore, why is necessary another approach for dealing with requirement variability? We know some limitations of existing works, but the authors do not describe them. Additionally, there is no discussion about the benefits and limitations of the proposed techniques when comparing it with the existing ones.     \
\
In Section 3 the authors briefly present the Graphic Variability Model. However, the semantics of this model is described in a previous work (it is not a contribution of this paper). In such a model, all variants are described as "aspects". The main problem in this section is that the semantics, although described in another paper, is a bit confused. For instance, in Figure 3 the "unlock door by magnetic card" scenario extends the "unlock door" scenario using the "after" designator. When observing the MagneticCardReader state chart, one of the transitions send "unlockDoor", which I guess that start the "unlock door" scenario. Therefore, in this example is it correct to use the "after" designator? Are there missing "join relationships in the diagram depicted in Figure 3? \
\
How to represent variabilities that are not well modularized as aspects (do not affect the behavior, such as quality attributes) in their proposed approach?\
\
Why the authors decided to do not use Feature Models instead of their proposed \
\
\
 \
\
}